"BetaGlue is developing an innovative ""radiotherapy from within"", personalized and cost-effective anti-tumoural platform technology called BAT-90. BAT-90 maximises the therapeutic index of loco-regional treatment by eliminating off-target radiation dose in a simple and easy...
LuxQuanta develops novel hardware for ultra-secure communications in metropolitan networks (below 50 km) based on Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). QKD is a method for securely transmitting encryption keys using the principles of quantum mechanics and is resistant to the threat...
Multimedia content is indispensable in our society, necessitating effective content management. A critical aspect of this is assessing the similarity between two multimedia items like images, videos, and documents. LUSt's mission is to pioneer a universal similarity function...
"There is a large unmet medical need for an efficient and highly accessible solution that can simultaneously treat and prevent BV and VVC, while removing the abuse of antibiotic and antimycotic drugs to avoid further antimicrobial resistance. The inefficacy of current...
SUNSTONE is dedicated to reinforcing the SESAME (Synchrotron light for Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East) facility. This initiative includes eight key European and Middle Eastern research infrastructures and organisations, with the Paul Scherrer Institut...
The overwhelming scientific evidence provided by the academic corpus indicates that to tackle the origin and negative impacts of nutrient pollution on water, soil and biodiversity, a wide landscape-river-sea system approach needs to be used. This should work on sustainable...
Although several new antibiotic candidates are in the clinical pipeline, the future evolution of resistance in bacteria may render them ineffective. This project aims to develop a framework for forecasting the long-term effectiveness of new antibiotic candidates. For this...
The last century has seen a dramatic increase in the prevalence of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune illnesses, including diseases of poorly understood etiology such as Crohn’s disease (CD) and myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME). Recent reports for CD and ME of elevated levels...
"This action is part of the Cancer Mission cluster of projects on “Understanding (tumour-host interactions)"".Challenge: Primary or acquired resistance to therapies is a major challenge in oncology. Recent research suggests that intratumoral microbiota may contribute to...
As droughts are becoming more frequent and severe, there is a call for adaptation strategies that enhance the crop’s resilience to these climate conditions. One pathway to do so is to select crops whose root system optimize the soil water uptake. However, the identification...
The ATLAS² project aims at developing the first service of Space Safety. Based on a network of 7 radars deployed around the world with a new design for scanning and tracking, capable to detect debris down to centimetric size, and through fusing data from its network and other...
Sorghum is a drought tolerant cereal crop, grown extensively by smallholder farmers in West Africa. It is expected to become increasingly important to crop production in the Sahel, and grow as part of Europe’s grain portfolio as incidences of drought become more frequent...
Thermal homeostasis is essential to survival. But how our brain processes thermosensory information and triggers behaviors that help maintain our physiological, body state remains a mystery. The neural circuits responsible for perception of sensory stimulation and those for...
Buildings wield substantial influence on the environment, accounting for a hefty 30% of global energy usage and a consequential 19% of greenhouse gas emissions. To combat this looming crisis, the Net-Zero Energy Building (NZEB) concept emerges as a transformative paradigm...
Next generation solar cells based on metal halide perovskite (MHP) materials promise cheaper and more energy-efficient photovoltaic and optoelectronic devices compared to current silicon-based technologies. To further advance MHP technology, however, will require fundamental...
Non-equilibrium states of matter have become of great fundamental and practical interest in recent years because of their wide importance in diverse areas of physics. With the rapid development of new time-resolved techniques, the temporal dynamics of competing processes and...
The overall objective of the ARCHIBIOFOAM project is to create mono-material yet multifunctional systems for architecture through the additive fabrication of shape-changing load-bearing biofoams. Our approach integrates biobased materials science, computational metamaterial...
NeuroWelfare in Cash Transfers Measures (CTs): Do Welfare Cash Transfers Show Different Brain Activity and Improve Equality? (NW) aims to pave the way for the interdisciplinary study of the brain functioning and the socio-cognitive impact on self and social perception in the...
The project aims to develop novel design, engineering and fabrication methods for point-supported timber slab structures in multi-storey buildings. It aims to provide the fundamental technologies for a sustainable alternative building system that could broadly replace...
Reusing salvaged timber in new applications can make an important contribution to circular economy. However, currently the reuse of such materials is limited, especially in structural applications. One reason is the lack of demands from the wood sector due to the absence of...
The NutriEV project explores the pivotal role of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from food in nutrition. These nutriEVs are envisioned to serve as superfoods and nutritional biosensors. The project integrates various disciplines, including nutrition, microbiome research...
How does human work structure the economy and society? Temples in the Southern Levant during the Persian Empire (c. 539–331BCE) provide a vital, underutilized historical vista for such questions. Persian involvement with labor taxation, forced labor, andtemple institutions...
Sound plays a critical role in many species behaviour and their intra and inter specific interactions, thus disruption of animal soundscapes due to anthropogenic noise has led to significant negative impacts on wildlife populations. Although, in terrestrial environments...
The European Union has been challenged to contribute to the global aim of providing sustainable solutions to the current and future needs on synthetic compounds and materials in the coming years. In this sense, the development of sustainable chemical processes is one of the...
Energy intensive high temperature processing industries lost more than 50% of their energy as waste heat during the production, which accounts for 200 TWh of power each year in Europe. There are many technologies available for converting waste heat into electricity but at...
Numerous advances impacting society, from basic science to consumer technology, are built on fundamental research in mathematics. Examples include non-Euclidean geometry (leading to general relativity, and then GPS navigation); number theory (leading to public-key...
Poor nutritional regimes are main drivers of metabolic diseases and intestinal dysbiosis. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) prevalence is expected to reach 7% of the global population by 2023, and to curb its rise is an urgent public health need. Intestinal dysbiosis is a determinant...
NUTRIMMUNE examines how dietary factors affect immune responses across varying degrees of obesity-related Noncommunicable Disease (NCD) severity. This focus is crucial given obesity’s link to NCDs and infection risks. The project gathers 6 academic groups and 1 SME across 4...
Brewer's spent grain (BSG) is a significant by-product of beer brewing, accounting for 85% of the waste produced and 31% of the original malt weight. Therefore, there is a need to explore various recycling methods for this residue and transform it into value-added products...
The proposed network aspires to provide high quality doctorate training to a core group of young researchers in one of the most visible and fast-developing areas of astrophysics, the lifecycle of supermassive black holes and their impact on the evolution of galaxies. The key...
Malnutrition represents a major burden for a large part of the population and, in particular, for vulnerable population groups like lung cancer patients. Lung cancer is a global health crisis, with over 2.2 million new cases in 2020 and profound societal and economic impacts...
Gout is a prevalent lifestyle related NCD on the rise in Europe causing low quality of life, yet with inefficient means for treatment. An effective approach to manage hyperuricemia, the precursor to gout, would significantly enhance health outcomes and have a profound...
The project will investigate the uses of justice by women in the colonial contexts of the Río de la Plata, between Spanish and Portuguese Americas through lawsuits of moral crimes. The ultimate aim is to untangle the trials by detecting features both in and beyond the...
The magnetically induced movement of a soft elastic material which contains magnetic particles includes rotations of said particles. In other words, the particles apply torque on their surroundings. Since the material is soft, large deformations take place, in part due to...
In response to set targets for reducing our carbon footprint and securing our energy future in Europe, the CharCool project combines the use of natural energy and nature-based solutions to achieve clean and efficient cooling. CharCool is an innovative and sustainable...
The project SMACool will develop a functional air-conditioning device for residential buildings, based on the emerging technology of elastocalorics, which uses (shape memory) alloys as solid-state refrigerants for efficient and sustainable cold (and heat) generation...
Cancer cell homeostasis requires a balance between activated oncogenic pathways driving tumorigenesis and engagement of stress-response programs to counteract the inherent toxicity of such aberrant signaling. Indeed, emerging evidence suggests that hyperactivated oncogenic...
The S4I2T project seeks to develop a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solar electric water propulsion system. It aims to use water as a propellant to enable autonomous spacecraft docking and propellant refilling, promoting economic and environmental sustainability...
Ultracold quantum gases allowed to realize experimentally several paradigmatic models of theoretical physics, such as nonrelativistic bosons and fermions with zero-range interactions. One of the issues driving the last decades of research on quantum gases was understanding...
The PROSECCO project brings direct advancements to the maturity level of HVDC grids. Doing so, it aids in realizing Europe's climate goals for 2050. Meshed HVDC grids is a key technology to integrate offshore wind and to upgrade the European power system. As such, the future...
In response to climate change, the landmark Paris Agreement established a set of goals to achieve climate neutrality and limit global warming. To help investors and companies contribute to these goals, the EU adopted a taxonomy for sustainable activities, and in line with it...
To combat daily threats of pathogens and abnormal cells, the human organism features a sophisticated defense mechanism called the adaptive immune system. In broad terms, this intricate mechanism is triggered by specific peptide epitopes presented on molecules of the major...
“Critique” represents a fundamental notion of modern European societies. It is, at least according to our own self-understanding, by thinking and acting critically – that is, by “thinking for ourselves” and by “resisting authority” – that we distinguish...
"In sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), attaining food security is crucial for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of 'Zero Hunger'. Despite this, malnutrition rates of SSA in 2022 have deteriorated compared to 2010. Climate change further compounds this challenge, as it...
Seafood is a critical component of human diets and the most widely traded food group. Marine fish and invertebrates are increasingly affected by climate change. Global seafood trade could buffer the impacts of climate change by allowing for increased imports. However, global...
Lignocellulose is the largest renewable carbon source that does not compete with food, or land and can be catalytically converted into fuels. Accessing such high-value chemicals and biofuels is challenging due to the high strength of C-O and C-H bonds, requiring high-energy or...
SYNERGIES confronts pivotal challenges within the CCAM community, such as the absence of interoperable scenario databases, time-consuming and expensive development cycles, and regulatory ambiguities. It achieves this by implementing the Safety Assurance Framework developed in...
Practical strategies that provide facile access to tetrasubstituted olefins bearing a fluorine atom and/or a polyfluoroalkyl moiety are crucial to drug discovery and development and are therefore in high demand. Equally important and sought-after are reliable and...
Due to recurring economic and political shocks, the past decade has consolidated crisis-management and resilience as a key priority of the European Union (EU). Academic research has long interrogated the ways in which crises are dealt with at the European level. Yet, the...
Interconnects impose major limits on the performance on integrated circuits during the exponential reduction of feature size of microchips. The semiconductor industry faces challenges in the metallization of interconnects below the 10 nm half pitch and is looking to...
Septal GABAergic projection neurons are considered “pacemaker” cells as they enable the temporal organization of neuronal spike firing in hippocampal and entorhinal networks that support spatial- and object-coding. Accordingly, medial septum inactivation is associated with...
I will analyse how agents’ traits affect behaviour and strategic reasoning in decision problems and games. Traits encompass stable cognitive and psychological features of agents, such as tastes, skills, cognitive abilities, attitudes toward uncertainty and misspecification...
Being a language of nature, differential equations are ubiquitous in science and technology. Solving them is a fundamental computational task with a long and rich history. Applications usually require approximate solutions, which can be computed using numerical methods such as...
The pioneering experiments of intensity correlations by Hanbury-Brown and Twiss more than 50 years ago not only allowed to measure the angular diameter of many bright stars, but it also motivated Roy Glauber to develop his quantum formalism of photon statistics. The advent of...
"In an era marked by the ""global boiling"" phenomenon, there's an intensifying emotional toll from concurrent crises, manifesting in heightened anxieties and depressive feelings. They are especially palpable among the youth, where the intersection with rising climate...
MILADO will provide a robust and universal technology platform for low-cost and large volume fabrication of mid infrared (MIR) lasers enabling novel sensors in medicine and production. Key innovation is the technology upscale of the epitaxy of Quantum-Cascade-Lasers (QCLs) on...
Granular materials are omnipresent in our daily life. The same granular material can behave like solid and fluid, which poses a formidable challenge to the constitutive models and numerical methods. Traditionally, constitutive models for the solid- and fluid-like behaviour...
Behavioural and cognitive biases reduce the ability of decision makers to adopt the best solutions among the alternatives available. Borrowed from pre-existing knowledge in psychology on priming, “nudges” are defined as gentle interventions in a decision maker’s choice...
The target of climate-neutral aviation has led to a strong increase in the size of new propulsion systems, resulting in their lowered distance to the airframe components. This causes new aerodynamic interactions with heavy distortion of the turbulent flow, determining...
“Watch out!” - is the term we use to inform somebody about a potentially dangerous situation. “Take cover!” - we shout when the threat is imminent. Not only humans but also animals use alarm calls to warn conspecifics about danger, and the value of these signals for...
DYMAN targets the development of a completely new design of adsorption chillers based on the following innovations (1) New low-temperature adsorbents achieving high capacities at very low driving temperatures below 50 °C. (2) New type of adsorption heat exchangers made of 3D...
Diabetes is a leading cause for morbidity and mortality worldwide. In our fight against the diabetes pandemic, my team and I recently identified subgroups of humans that are predictive for future life-threatening complications even before diabetes onset. Classification into...
Immuno- and targeted therapies have revolutionized the treatment of cancer patients, and more innovative therapeutics, such as KRAS inhibitors (KRASi), are entering the clinic. However, their use as monotherapies fails to achieve durable tumor control in most patients, and the...
TEMPA-3D offers a transdisciplinary approach to study endangered archaeological collections from Kamyana Mohyla, Ukraine and Rogaland, Norway. By fusing photogrammetry and experimental archaeology TEMPA-3D will initiate new research subfield and make an impact on the broader...
Active magnetic bearings (AMBs) are considered the next revolution of electric motor technology. They solve all the limitations of standard high-speed bearing technologies. However, they are still limited to low volume applications in heavy industries since their core...
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) has emerged as a global epidemic, impacting 1 in 10 people worldwide and causing over 114,000 deaths annually in Europe. Despite extensive research, understanding the pathogenic mechanisms driving distinct disease subtypes and how diet influences glucose...
Today, battery development is done via extensive trial-and-error laboratory experiments. It is extremely costly and not scalable. Compular has developed an advanced Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation software, tailored to battery R&D, that enables replacing much of the tedious...
Path4Med is a multi-participatory and multidisciplinary project that will pave clear pathways towards zero water and soil pollution in the agro-hydro-system of the Mediterranean sea basin and other European seas through an innovative triple bottom line approach achieving...
Diabetes Mellitus affects nearly 600 million people worldwide. It is a major cause of premature death, blindness, end stage kidney disease, and limb amputation. However, it is not a single disease. Most patients are catalogued as type 2 diabetes, which is itself highly...
The main objective of the VINNY is the development of sustainable, low-cost nanoformulated biopesticides (nanoBPs) and biofertilizers (nanoBFs) for contributing to more resilient vineyard systems. The application of VINNY nanoformulations will allow contributing to the...
BACKGROUNDThere are few research ethics committees (RECs) with capacity to review and provide oversight for clinical trials in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), and hardly any national accreditation systems used to evaluate the quality of review by these RECs. Although digital...
Textile industry is facing major challenges. It is one of the most polluting industries, and consumers, as well as European regulations, are pushing for change. Indeed, global demand is changing, and consumers tend to expect more sustainable and smart textiles. Moreover, the...
Chemosensation is a critical signalling process for sea cucumbers which relies on the interaction between their chemosensory receptors and various ligands for foraging and reproduction. Although there is a vast amount of research on the chemistry of secreted specialized...
Transcription, the first and most crucial step in decoding the genome, is orchestrated by an extensive repertoire of transcription factors (TFs). These TFs transmit diverse signals to the nucleus, directing precise temporal and spatial gene activation programs. They employ a...
The introduction of immune checkpoint therapy for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) has improved clinical outcomes. However, due to primary or secondary resistance, only a minority of patients show long term responses, leading to exploration of a multiplicity of new agents...
The ZEUS project is focused on advancing the development of innovative, highly efficient and radiation-resistant nanowire solar cells designed for in-orbit solar energy collection. While current space-tested nanowire solar cells offer around 15% efficiency using single-band...
When walking with a cane, a blind person can localize the objects they touch. Tool-based sensing requires the brain to combine sensory signals at the hand and proprioceptive information together with knowledge of the physical properties of the tool. To correctly interpret the...
Ocean Visuals' project centers on the development and deployment of the Oil-in-Water Locator (OWL), a cutting-edge solution designed to address the complex challenges of monitoring and safeguarding coastal undersea environments. By utilizing advanced Hyperspectral Laser...
This project aims to develop high-performance, low-cost and environmentally-friendly Half Heusler (HH) thermoelectric (TE) materials for waste heat recovery in mid-temperature applications. It is an interdisciplinary research program, combining research actions from five...
LANDLABS operates in six landscape laboratories all over Europe, all of which are urban landscapes characterized by heavy industrial influence. Its goals are the development of new theories for understanding urban landscapes in the Anthropocene and new methods to design them...
In HYPER-AI, we work with smart virtual computing entities (nodes) that come from a variety of infrastructures that span all three of the so-called computing continuum's layers: the Cloud, the Edge, and IoT.It focuses on intensive data-processing applications that present the...
CoGNETs aims to revolutionize the Intelligent Infrastructure Management by introducing a scalable and interoperable distributed Middleware Framework for autonomous IoT-to-Cloud computing, sustainable during and after the project via FIWARE Foundation (Technical Manager) and...
Human genes are organized in complex networks, to produce thousands of proteins to perform a myriad of functions. Whereas we have detailed maps for most biochemical pathways, the wiring of genetic networks in human cells is poorly understood.Development of powerful human...
Existing CO2 capture technologies, such as amine-based absorption and cryogenic distillation, face challenges and problems including high energy requirements, large infrastructure needs, and high costs. These technologies often require significant retrofitting or integration...
Why RER-CTO?: The conduct of clinical trials requires competent ethics committee and regulatory authorities that can review clinical trial applications and monitor processes independently and efficiently ensuring the safety of clinical trial participants, and the integrity...
Depressed mood, agitation, false beliefs, lack of motivation and other alterations in behaviour, usually named with the umbrella term of neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS), are commonly observed in people with Alzheimer’s disease (AD). NPS are highly prevalent in people with AD...
The surge in demand for precise localization services, driven by location-based applications and autonomous vehicles (AVs), necessitates advancements beyond current GPS and 5G technologies. 6G presents a transformative opportunity by leveraging non-terrestrial networks (NTNs)...
We are currently witnessing a technological revolution driven by the recent achievements in NISQ devices, which despite their imperfect controllability have already revolutionized our understanding of many-body dynamics and quantum information science. While a lot of effort is...
The rise of quantum technology has opened the eyes of the ICT industry with respect to cryogenics. It is considered an enabler bringing in quantum functionalities and enhanced system performance and we are observing a massive growth of cryogenics from coolers to cryogenic...
The Researchers´ Night is one of the favorite science popularization events in the Czech Republic. Since its introduction in 2005, it has steadily grown in terms of scope, geographical coverage, professionalization, and attendance by the public. The consortium of 18...
E-textile is rapidly developing segment of electronics with an estimated growth from 2.3 billion USD in 2021 to 6.6 billion in 2026. They facilitate many socially important applications such as personalized health or elderly care or smart agriculture and production...
POWERSAT focuses on scavenging the unexploited solar infrared (IR) spectrum by providing an original THz (10-400 THz) energy harvesting platform, thus completing the function of photovoltaics cells, and on harvesting the microwave spillover losses from satellite’s antennas...
Microplastic debris pollution (MP), as a serious environmental problem worldwide, is responsible for most of the hidden marine plastic pollution, being found in organisms from algae to top predators. This innovative proposal (acronym: PlastHealth) will provide a comprehensive...
The SUPPORT project aims to strengthen health research systems in sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries affected by poverty-related pediatric infectious diseases. This goal will be achieved through a comprehensive fellowship program designed to train and mentor early and...
Greenhouse gas emissions for refrigeration systems worldwide were in 2019 equivalent to the whole EU emissions. Long-term sustainability requires improvements in energy efficiency, with a huge return on investment obtained from even slight improvements. The mechanocaloric...
Chronic cluster headache and chronic migraine pose a significant challenge for patients and neurologists worldwide. Approx. 48-64% of the patients experience only limited relief from drug-based treatments, they are drug-refractory. Salvia BioElectronics B.V. developed PRIMUS...
Pertinent is developing products that combine the effectiveness of chemical pesticides with the safety of biocontrol products.Pertinent is applying to a blended funding program combining €2.5M of grants and €6M in direct investment to cover commercialization of its first...
CARBCOMN addresses a disruptive innovation in zero-carbon concrete load-bearing structures (combination of columns, beams, slabs or walls) by setting forth a new digital AEC design paradigm that is fully compatible with concrete that uses CO2 as raw material and is...
Modern pig production hugely depends on in-feed antibiotics to control postweaning diarrhea (PWD) and improve pig gut health during weaning. However, the use of in-feed antibiotics and zinc oxide (ZnO) has already been banned in Europe prompting an urgent need for alternative...
Approximately forty million people across the world are blind, a condition with serious consequences for a person’s autonomy. Restoration of visual function in blind individuals is an important scientific goal with large societal benefits. In a large fraction of blind...
My overarching ambition in EcoEvoMove is to provide new theoretical and empirical understanding of how ecological and evolutionary dynamics can interact to ‘rescue’ wild populations from impending extinctions caused by changing and increasingly extreme seasonal climatic...
Software systems pervade our personal and professional lives, yet their insecurity threaten our society. To assure that software systems are dependable and secure, one must reason about their code. Static program analysis enables such reasoning. It can be applied to individual...
To date, light has been employed as a widespread trigger to achieve control over the activity of drugs and protein function establishing the fields of photopharmacology and optogenetics, respectively. Both techniques led to promising new therapies, the elucidation of brain...
Biomass and plastic recycling feedstocks hold significant potential to replace chemicals and fuels derived from fossil resources. However, their distinct chemical compositions, and large water content, present challenges to existing infrastructure and catalysts. Zeolites...
This innovative and highly interactive festival seeks to create bridges between science, research, technology and the arts. It aims to attract Maltese and Europeans, from all walks of life. Engaging visitors with activities, performances, workshops, experiments, installations...
This project proposes developing, preclinical and clinical validation of a Point of Care (PoC) biosensing platform based on multiplexed field-effect sensor technology based on graphene monolayers functionalized with specific and oriented recognizing biomolecules (BioGFET)...
The exponential growth of satellite launches and, in general, of in-orbit activities calls for technological breakthroughs in cost-effective solar energy harvesting technologies for Space deployment.JUMP INTO SPACE envisions a high-efficient, lightweight and flexible, stable...
The discovery of gravitational waves by the LIGO and Virgo collaborations opened a new window to the Universe. Space-based gravitational wave detectors, such as the LISA mission, enable an exciting opportunity: using gravitational waves from the very early Universe in the...
Omegga - World’s first low-cost in-ovo sexing solution to finally end chick cullingIn the egg-laying hen industry, over 7 billion day-old roosters are killed each year, because male layer chickens neither lay eggs nor produce enough meat to be profitable. Omegga developed a...
The packing problem associated with a family of sets F seeks a large subfamily of pairwise disjoint members of F. When F comprises the unit balls in d-space, this is the sphere packing problem, which for d = 3 was solved by Hales-Ferguson (Kepler’s conjecture). The cases d =...
Concepts of medicine, health, and healing are now at the core of the global agenda due to the recent pandemic. In this context, a better understanding of the intangible cultural heritage of ancient and indigenous medical cultures is crucial. It is often assumed that...
Numerous experimental observations have shown that the Standard Model is not complete. Precision measurements in quantum systems are one of the privileged frontiers for searching for new physics, as new particles may couple to atoms, provoking tiny changes in atomic structure...
Deficiencies in propulsion systems—compactness, power, cost-effectiveness, fuel efficiency, scalability, and adaptability—curtail the potential of small satellites in Low Earth Orbit (LEO), hindering mission diversity and longevity. The imminent surge in the deployment of...
The doctoral training network IDEoPOP (International Dimensions and Effects of Populism) aims to study how the phenomenon of populism is related to world politics. While the global rise of populist political parties, governments and movements all over the world, from Hungary...
"Digital platforms can massively erode the social environment in which they operate. For instance, short-term rental platforms (STRs) such as Airbnb dislodge vulnerable locals from their homes, escalate gentrification, and further fuel overtourism. Urban ecosystems develop...
Current industrial plasma etching processes are not sustainable because they make use of halogens. HaloFreeEtch will take a fundamental, interdisciplinary and systematic approach to find new halogen-free etching processes.HaloFreeEtch aims to identify new, halogen-free and...
The negative environmental impact of construction, effects of global climate change, global housing shortage, and rising labor costs due to a shortage of skilled workers are driving the construction industry to question traditional construction methods and push the limits of...
In the history of political thought, Late Antiquity is usually considered the period when the city-state gave way to monarchy and the Bible and Qur’an took the place of Plato. With a focus on kingship and religion, late antique political thinking – so the story goes –...
"Black-box optimization algorithms are among the most widely applied optimization techniques in practice, used to solve numerous problems across a broad range of industrial branches and academic disciplines every day. Given this importance, it is not surprising that a plethora...
The health effects of the migration trajectory, from pre- to post-migration in new environments, have yet been poorly studied. Methodological challenges and selection effects limit the possibilities for causal inferences on how differences in social, economic, or political...
The project proposal under the title TRAILS (acronym) aims to help prepare the society for large progress that has been made in the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI), emerging AI tools that are already transforming our day-to-day work, and the impact that this research...
Liver metastases commonly develop in up to 50% of patients with various cancer types. The most common cancer that metastasizes to the liver is colorectal cancer (CRC). At least 25% of CRC patients develop colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) during their illness. CRLM represent...
Archaea are microbes that form one of the three domains of life. While sharing similarities with both Bacteria and Eukarya, archaea possess unique features such as atypical lipid membranes, the archaellum motility apparatus, and exclusive metabolic pathways like...
Every year 1.5 million lives are lost worldwide due to insufficient access to vaccination while, paradoxically, over 50% of all produced vaccines are wasted, mostly due to ineffective temperature control during storage/transportation. The major challenges of the vaccine cold...
Creating new technologies towards long-term in space self-sustainability is essential to solve the problem of the increasing energy demand both in space and on Earth. Biology can provide the answer to this challenge, self-sustainability being the defining characteristic of...
DESIRE4EU aims at proving the concept of a radically new sustainable approach to produce, use and recycle electronic printed circuit boards (PCB) that combine technical performance, economic and ecological efficiency throughout their life cycle.The project’s vision is of...
Similar to terrestrial photosynthesis, whereby plants convert solar energy into chemical energy through the capture of light energy, Green SWaP project seeks to harness this potentiality in space by converting water into highly valuable propellants, specifically hydrogen...
The objective of the LEMON project is the development and technical demonstration of a process for the scalable, permanent, helium-3-free generation of very low (cryogenic) milli-Kelvin temperatures based on continuous Adiabatic Demagnetization Refrigeration (cADR). It is...
The REMPOWER project embarks on a pioneering journey to harness the untapped potential of space-based solar power (SBSP) through innovative rectenna technology and sub-THz wireless energy transmission. However, SBSP also faces many challenges, such as high launch costs...
One of the most fundamental questions in evolutionary biology is centred on our ancestors: How did animals originate? Recent advances in various disciplines have refined this question of whether the most profound divergence in the animal phylogenetic tree, estimated to have...
Worshipped, contested, abandoned. This downward spiral marked the fates of dozens of mystics and aspiring saints who lived in Italy in the first half of the twentieth century. Neglected today by the majority of the faithful, condemned by the ecclesiastical authorities and...
The public nationwide, especially youngsters, will meet researchers and experience research inside and outside campuses, peripheral and central cities, Arabic-speaking and Hebrew-speaking communities, informal festivity settings, and schools. It will allow discussions at eye...
The Danube River has played a vital role in supporting both human and animal life for centuries. Since the late 19th century, human interventions have significantly altered the natural flow of the river to optimize its utility. These interventions have included actions such as...
"The Danube River Basin (DRB) faces significant challenges associated with river sediments. In the 2021 update of the Danube River Basin Management Plan, sediment balance alteration emerged as a new sub-topic within the existing Significant Water Management Issue titled...
ProCleanLakes targets to combat the combined impact of various disruptive factors that generate continuous pressure on the lake's ecosystem status and facilitate the accumulation of emerging, non-regulated, chemical contaminants and nutrient enrichment. The project will design...
The DEMINE (Dealing with conflicts related to Migration: Negotiating social cohesion through communication) European Joint Doctorate (DN-JD) network addresses a critical challenge facing Europe: the increasing prevalence of radicalisation and extremism, which threaten social...
The overarching objective of FutureLakes is to demonstrate innovative solutions needed to transform lake restoration, integrated into lake management. These aim to significantly improve ecological and chemical status of European lakes, restore biodiversity, recover valuable...
Energy-efficient building renovations are crucial for reducing the operational carbon emissions of EU building stock, thereby aligning with the EU’s Renovation Wave strategy and carbon-neutrality goal. Accurate, comprehensive and up-to-date data on the buildings’...
With this project, Belgian Women in Science, a Brussels-based non-profit organisation, aims to bring women researchers closer to the general public and stimulate the interest in scientific careers among young people with a special focus on gender diversity and inclusiveness...
PLATEX studies how users are affected by increased standardization associated with tools and services offered by platforms, and whether AI offsets these effects through customization. PLATEX reveals a potential “illusion of choice” where optional tools shape competition on...
CityLife explores, from a bioarchaeological perspective, how historical populations adapted to an urban environment and developed resilience to the disadvantages of urban life. By exploiting the vast amount of information contained in human skeletal remains, the project will...
Today’s urgent challenges are inherently complex and systemic and will not be solved by individual actors or territories in isolation. To foster enabling innovation ecosystems across the EU, a systemic approach that is inclusive and collaborative is required. Diverse actors...
In the context of climate change, Europe is facing new challenges that are threatening food security. There is thus an urgent need for the development of innovative strategies to improve plant tolerance to stress. Notably, recent years have already shown an unusual frequency...
In 1997 Juha Kinnunen proved that maximal operators satisfy a Sobolev bound if the Sobolev exponent p is strictly larger than 1. His article initiated the study of regularity of maximal functions, a field which has attracted several dozens of authors to this day. Geometric...
Mbryonics Ltd. is an independent Deep tech development company, based in Galway, Ireland, specialising in the design and manufacture of Optical terminals for Optical Intersatellite Links (OISLs) and Optical Ground Station (OGS) and adaptive optics systems.Technology leaders in...
The semiconductor industry is a 600B$ industry. The share of semiconductor memories is 150B$. But there are no memory manufacturers in Europe. So, the EU is missing out on a huge share of the semiconductor market!FMC will change that – by creating fundamentally new memories...
When are peacekeeping operations (POs) successful? A leading answer from quantitative peacekeeping research is that mission size and personnel composition matter. The larger the deployment, the higher the number of uniformed troops, and the more culturally different the...
Exposure to a traumatic event can induce psycho-physiological reactions and symptoms that in most people recede over time. A minority of trauma-exposed individuals develop posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), characterized by severe functional and emotional impairment. The...
The cortex has the amazing capacity to continuously learn through experience while retaining past memories. But how does the cortical network implement this continual learning while avoiding interference and catastrophic overwriting of prior events? While cell assemblies with...
Peripheral nerve injury is a major source of disability, impairing muscle movement or normal sensations: 4Mn people annually experience traumatic nerve damage. Current solutions do not always achieve full motor and sensory recovery, leading to loss of sensation/function and...
In a public enquiry made by the European Commission, 80% of respondents were willing to reduce their meat intake to help reduce the emission of greenhouse gases (GHG), and 74% intended to change their diet to improve their health. However, current meat analogues in the market...
We learned from the pandemic that air quality is essential for people’s health. Current technologies did not effectively manage infectious diseases propagated by aerosol suspensions of pathogens, leading to the need for social distancing and dramatically impacting the...
Spin-off from University of Antwerp (PLASMANT research group), D-CRBN is a climate tech company which has developed a cutting-edge technology that enables the conversion of CO2. We recycle captured CO2 and split it into its original building blocks thanks to our proprietary...
Floods and droughts put increasing pressure on the European society, with estimated annual damages from river flooding of €7.6 billion and drought-induced losses over €9 billion. Fostering sponge measures as nature-based solutions to boost the natural retention function of...
Uncovering the details and impacts of different forest uses and their related socio-ecological systems is essential for understanding forest ecosystems. One of these uses is charcoal burning. It was a common type of forest use in Europe from prehistory until the 20th century...
Motor learning is essential to move in a continuously changing environment, but the underlying neural circuit mechanisms are still poorly understood. This is critical for locomotion, a fundamental but complex behavior, which requires precise control of whole-body movements at...
We are on the verge of the next big breakthrough in gravitational wave (GW) astronomy: namely the detection of a nano-Hz GW signal with Pulsar Timing Arrays (PTAs). Within the next few years nano-Hz GWs will be established as a completely new window on our Universe, unlocking...
"Between the end of the 9th and the beginning of the 7th centuries BC, the Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia regions (Northeastern Italy), as well as Slovenia, were involved in a significant process referred in literature as ""Proto-urbanization"". During this period, a...
This conference under Belgium Presidency aims at engaging in a dialog with experts in the field of SSAH, knowledge brokers and policymakers with a view to improve the contribution of the SSAH disciplines in evidence-informed policymaking. By way of interactive discussions...
Cilia-AI will train a new generation of multidisciplinary biomedical researchers and entrepreneurs, and those specializing in emerging machine learning technologies, a subset of AI. The focus is the study of primary cilia, microtubule-based projections on cell surfaces that...
Artificial intelligence is increasingly being brought to the source of data, thus establishing the Edge AI concept. Edge AI is gaining momentum across various industries and services by public authorities and enables new applications requiring high performance, ultra-low...
ComeInCell will establish a novel integrated Synthetic Cell platform to provide cost- and resource-efficient, environmentally friendly, widely applicable and quantitative model systems to elucidate key cellular mechanisms of health and disease based on the integration of...
The future economic growth in Europe requires engineers and researchers capable to design, develop and implement new information technologies to support explosive data-driven transformation of economy, public and government activities. The analysis of this data demands a...
The lagomorphs (rabbits, hares and pikas) are a successful mammalian group, which play key roles in many ecosystems (sustaining other species' communities and populations). The ongoing climate change is pushing most of their species into the extinction, and their demise can...
As the world's second most widely used metal (after iron), aluminium (Al) and its alloys play a crucial role in decarbonizing the transportation sector and achieving climate neutrality for both the EU and our world. Essentially, Al-alloys reinforced with quasicrystalline (QC)...
Bone tissue engineering has been considered a viable solution Bone tissue engineering has been considered a viable solution for clinical restoration and recovery of defected bone tissue caused by injuries, skeletal dysfunction, and cancer. But current approaches are limited in...
PROMOTE focuses on multidisciplinary education of doctoral candidates (DCs) in -omics and artificial intelligence (AI) mediated intervention to improve clinical management of Prostate Cancer (PCa). PCa is the second most common malignancy, affecting ~1.3 million men every year...
Constricted by electron spin statistics, the maximum internal quantum efficiency of 100% can be achieved in organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) by utilizing purely organic thermally activated delayed fluorescence (TADF) materials. However, due to strong charge transfer, they...
Interfacing the solid-state electronics with biological systems has been a long-standing challenge in nanobiotechnology. Creating nanobio hybrids would enable harnessing the remarkable capabilities offered by solid-state materials and biological molecules, such as proteins...
Recent progress in Ultra-High Intensity optical laser systems together with the advent of Free Electron Lasers has enabled the possibility to experimentally study hot dense plasmas with unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution. This early state of the plasma is prone to...
This research proposal pioneers energy-efficient residential structures through strategic integration of Phase-Change Materials (PCMs) into building walls. Focused on Portugal and the EU, the study targets substantial energy savings, initially estimated at under 18% based on...
Current healthcare systems rely heavily on individual’s self-monitoring ability to identify symptoms and initiate professional medical intervention, because of the limited possibilities to monitor a person's health proactively and from a distance. SMARTTEST is a timely...
Trinity College Dublin has co-ordinated European Researchers’ Nights every year since 2013. Building on this rich experience of public engagement and researcher development, the START project team will once again coordinate an event across multiple partners and locations in...
Structural variations are genomic alterations affecting portions of the chromosomes longer than 50 base pairs. These alterations are a main contributing factor to human diseases and different types of cancer. The main limitation of current approaches for the analysis of...
Electronics today cause major environmental impacts through manufacture, use and disposal, as well as growing concerns about Europe's economic and technological dependence on other regions of the world.The overall objective of GreenOMorph is the radical reduction of the...
Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows are conducted by INDIVIDUAL investors (abbreviated as IFDI), which have been strongly promoted by Immigrant Investor Programs (IIPs). Twenty-one out of twenty-seven of the member states of the European Union (EU) establish IIPs to attract...
As one of the most fascinating phenomena in physics, strong correlation exists across a wide range of scales from planet to electron. Researchers have been pursuing a thorough understanding of strong-correlation phenomena for decades. In addition to the equilibrium correlated...
"The European Union's goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 is crucial for transitioning to a low-carbon economy. However, ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions may lead to unintended consequences, notably from current EU policies. On one hand, increasing...
The optical frequency comb is a spectrum of evenly spaced narrow laser lines. Optical frequency combs have revolutionized time and frequency metrology by linking microwave and optical frequencies. However, realizing their full potential in a broader range of applications such...
Coherent light sources are limited to state-of-the art lasers such as free-electron gas or solid-state semiconductor gain media stabilized to high-quality optical cavities. However, the mirrors in these cavities vibrate as a result of thermal noise, causing time-integrated...
The consumption of dietary fibres (DF) should be increased to comply with the dietary guidelines and fuel various beneficial metabolites produced by the gut microbiota, such as short chain fatty acids (SCFA). Microbiota also produces gases that, in sensitive persons including...
AI is a disruptive technology that is currently changing not only many research fields but also substantially challenges current business concepts. Keeping up with the ever-faster progress on one hand side and the ever increasing competition from US and Chinese IT giants is a...
The PRISM project addresses critical challenges in neurosurgical training involving non-human primates (NHPs) within the framework of the 3Rs (Replacement, Reduction, Refinement) endorsed by the EU. NHPs are indispensable models in biomedical research, particularly in...
Within theoretical neuroscience, many have by now embraced the view of the brain as a prediction machine which updates its predictions in light of incoming information. Yet, these ‘Predictive Processing’ theories (PP) face big conceptual challenges. As I've shown...
The Arctic region has undergone profound transformations in recent decades due to a rapid decline in sea ice extent. These shifts impact the interplay between sea ice, the atmosphere, and the ocean, involving complex thermodynamic and dynamic processes. Understanding these...
Effective (organic) waste management and renewable energy supply are essential in our present society, such as meeting targets of the European Green Deal and the Renewable Energy Directive. Anaerobic digestion can tackle both challenges simultaneously, and has been commonly...
"Plexigrid - Plexar Operated GridsPlexigrid is creating a new value chain since it is building the Operating System for tomorrow's electricity grid. This system enables a new value chain for electricity distribution, where producers, consumers, grid operators... and their...
This proposal aims to delve further into the study of Probabilistically Checkable Proofs (PCPs), a cornerstone of modern theoretical computer science, that exhibits some of the most powerful local to global behavior. Any NP proof can be written in a format that is locally...
The U2Demo project aims to create innovative, consumer-centered management strategies that facilitate widespread participation in Peer-to-Peer (P2P) trading and Energy Sharing. This initiative will promote equitable and democratic access to sustainable energy resources. The...
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remain a major health problem worldwide and a leading cause of mortality, with over annual 18 million deaths. In Europe, CVDs are associated with 4 million deaths and costs of around €210 billion per year.Many surgeries to treat cardiac...
Hyme is a Danish SME established in 2021, dedicated to revolutionizing large-scale energy storage by developing a Thermal Energy Storage (TES) system that stores energy in the form of high-temperature heat in molten salt. This solution can contribute to the decarbonization of...
Precise manipulation of colloidal particles is essential to foster nanotechnology applications in chemistry, materials, biology, and devices. Fundamental insights into their dispersion, assembly, and reactivity, enable precise engineering of advanced materials and the...
I envision a new drug delivery system capable spatiotemporal release with electronic precision.This technology is based on; Biontronic Chemistry (BC) which combines Bioorthogonal Release (BR) and Iontronic transport to overcome the drawbacks of each individual technology and...
"The COMPASS project, acronym for ""Cavity cOntrol of quantuM PhAseS in nanophotonic cavitieS,"" delves into the theoretical exploration of inducing and controlling superconductivity and other many-body phases using nanophotonic cavities. Situated in the field of cavity...
Allogeneic tissue graft (hematopoietic cell transplantation; HCT) and solid organ transplantation (SOT) (Kidney, Heart, Lung,..) save tens of thousands of lives annually. Yet their success is compounded by a high incidence of the potentially fatal graft-versus-host disease...
All information humankind has of the ancient past of our planet comes from analyzing the geological record encoded in rocks. There is, however, no rock record of the first 600 million years of Earth’s history. Unlocking the secrets of this earliest period –the Hadean– is...
The proposed project aims to increase recycling ratio of steel and metals through improved sorting of scrap, better separation of non-wanted tramp elements as well as the valuable alloying elements. Steel can be recycled over and over again while retaining its technical...
Massive black holes (MBHs) are key players in high energy astrophysics, galaxy formation and evolution, and astroparticle physics. Despite their centrality to astronomy, we still cannot answer basic questions about MBHs. What are their origins? How have they grown over cosmic...
This project investigates how children in three small-scale Indigenous societies develop moral understandings and behavior in relation to different environments and environmental transformations. Communities across the world are experiencing rapid changes to the spaces they...
The lung is particularly exposed to airborne and blood-borne insults. The mechanisms underlying lung tissue repair are therefore of fundamental biological importance and have critical implications for the prevention life-threatening inflammatory and tissue-damaging responses...
A major adagio of the Sustainable Development Goals is “Leave no one behind” implying that actions addressing the sustainability challenges of our time should not be only ecologically beneficial, but also emancipatory for the most vulnerable and marginalized. Yet, many...
"We develop a new type of a global plasma simulation model with adaptive charged particle kinetic physics for the Mercury-solar wind interaction. Mercury’s solar wind interaction, or space weather, is unique in the solar system due to spatially small and temporally fast...
In response to the HORIZON-INFRA-2023-DEV-01-03 call, INFRAPLUS aims to expand INFRAFRONTIER's capacity for human disease modelling, refine its service portfolio by reducing animal usage and developing alternative cellular models, and optimise the use of resources. INFRAPLUS...
The spin angular momentum (S) of the electron has significantly extended conventional electronics, which relies on the electron charge (C), by new, so-called spintronic functionalities. Examples include magnetization switching, the transport of S and its detection, even down...
Cancer dormancy and the trigger to transition to active metastatic growth is a big open question. Current in vivo models focus on niche-specific cell and molecular mechanisms, ignoring biophysical aspects. Dormancy evolves with complex spatio-temporal dynamics; yet, there is a...
Ubiquitylation is an essential posttranslational modification that governs the activities and interactions of cellular proteins. The structural diversity of polyubiquitin chains, collectively called the ‘ubiquitin code’, is thought to determine the fate of the modified...
Chirality and water both play key roles in various aspects of biological functions and disentangling water’s role in chiral recognition in biological processes is paramount to ultimately understanding the origins of homochirality. HydroChiral proposes to do this by...
PlaMitEng has the highly ambitious overall objective to make the mitochondrial genome of seed plants amenable to genetic engineering. The project consists of two complementary work packages (WPs). In WP1, TALEN-GDM, a technology for plant mitochondrial genome editing recently...
Functionalities of enzymes are encoded in amino acid sequences and directed by their SHAPEs with complementary binding pockets for specific substrates. Natural enzymes are remarkable catalysts, however, they are typically optimized by evolution to operate under the constraints...
Can we decode the training data of a Deep Neural Network (DNN) directly from its parameters?Training data of DNNs are assumed safe. Recent findings by us and by others indicate that this is not the case, with severe implications on Data-Privacy. Yet, such findings shed light...
Microbiome-host crosstalk is crucial for gut homeostasis and its dysregulation is a hallmark of diseases such as colorectal cancer (CRC) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Despite its key relevance for a holistic understanding of the human superorganism and its...
Many of the existing Research Reactors (RR) in Europe are very old (>60 years operation). Only few initiatives are taken (PALLAS and JHR) to partially replace this capacity. Continued operation of these RRs is mandatory (at least until the new reactors come to operation) to...
MaLaR aims to develop an innovative approach leading to technology for the selective recovery of rare-earth metals from nuclear waste. It involves exploiting materials assembled from 2D sheets into 3D structures to improve the efficiency and selectivity of the recovery process...
The impact of low carbon energy sources in combating rapid climate change underlines the role of nuclear energy as part of a sustainable energy mix. Yet, safety and waste concerns must not be downplayed. For the latter, the main goal should be to recycle used fuel, aiming to...
High-assay low-enriched uranium metal (HALEU) is a critical resource required for the operation of research reactors and the production of pharmaceutical radioisotopes. Its availability is essential for advancing nuclear energy safety, materials science, basic scientific...
Radon is an unique atmospheric tracer, and high-quality measurements of direct atmospheric radon concentration complemented by indirect (by progeny) measurements at a key unique location in the Atlantic will open up multiple possibilities for climate science, as well as in...
Europe is the world’s largest supplier and among the world’s largest users of medical radioisotopes. A secure supply of these isotopes is key to support a safe, high quality and reliable use of radiological and nuclear technology in healthcare. As most medical...
The security of supply of VVER nuclear fuel has become and will remain of vital importance in countries operating VVER-type reactors, and due to the strongly interconnected European grid network, this is also instrumental for Europe as a whole. The aim of SAVE project is to...
The conception, development, optimization, and safety evaluation of a broad range of nuclear energy (fission and fusion) and non-energy applications (radiation protection, radionuclide production, health, geosciences, space research, security, and industry) require reliable...
Perceiving what others feel is one of the most fascinating traits of humans, as social animals. It is believed that sharing emotions is critical to facilitate social coordination, empathic experiences, and prosocial behaviors. Over the past decade, thanks to a groundbreaking...
Throughout its history, Rome has been a leading centre for culture and science, and still today the city and its environs are home to Italy’s largest concentration of research centres, laboratories and universities; in fact one of the largest concentration in Europe. In...
Today, robots are not secure. Thousands of industrial security vulnerabilities are emerging and our team has contributed to filing hundreds of them related to industrial robots like manipulators, AGVs, AMRs and other components.We have created RIS (Robot Immune System), the...
UniverCell Holding GmbH, established in 2019 in Flintbek, Germany, is revolutionizing the battery industry by developing and producing custom battery electrodes and cells tailored for premium applications like scooters, e-bikes, Power tools, Marine applications, Stationary...
Glycans, namely human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), play crucial roles in the functions of the gut, metabolism, and immunity. While HMOs are vital in infant development and exhibit bioactive properties in adults, it is required to analyze and decode their functions in depth...
E.T.COMPACT is aimed at reaching technology readiness level four for three in-space technologies on the domain of solar energy harvesting and green propulsion. The first technology, a thin film 2-terminal tandem CIGS/Perovskite module with efficiency larger than 15% and a...
"The ongoing global migration crisis has emerged as an important development challenge of our time, with millions of individuals crossing borders in search of better economic prospects, political liberties, & social stability. This research project examines how African...
The CCRI CSA's goal is to strengthen and complement the CCRI, in order to foster the implementation of Circular Systemic Solutions (CSS) in European cities and regions. Based on an initial scoping and needs assessment, the CSA will set up an Expert Team to support Thematic...
The SOLARIZE project intends to enhance the long-term sustainability of the EU-SOLARIS ERIC by successfully achieving its general objectives: enlargement of the membership; further involvement of R&D institutes and national funding institutions at the National Nodes; educating...
The cooling production, coupled with renewable electricity generation, are considered a cornerstone technology to meet increasing global cooling demand whilst decarbonise various sectors. According to the International Energy Agency, only accounting the air-conditioning...
Understanding the exact nature of CNS-dependent regulation of body weight has become of utmost societal importance as we are witnessing an ever-increasing number of overweight and obese subjects who exhibit a predisposition for a plethora of obesity-associated diseases such as...
Nonlinear fiber optics is paving the way for a new paradigm of technological developments, especially in the domain of modern communication, computation and metrology. Project FRESCOS (FREquency comb SpectrosCOpy with Specialty optical fibers) will utilize nonlinear optical...
The Minor Bodies of the Solar System, Asteroids, Trojans, Comets and Kuiper Belt Objects are left over planetary building bricks called planetesimals once abundant in the solar nebula. Via collisions and accretion of large grains, aka Pebbles, they grew into planets. The...
Enzyme catalysis is a key technology at the heart of industrial biotechnology, which is expected to drive economic growth and industrial leadership in the EU, while effectively addressing social, environmental and economic needs. Despite the growing impact of biocatalysis, the...
SEXWARC contributes to a paradigm shift in the archaeology of prostitution. The discipline has thus far mainly been limited to a description of the structural features of which brothels are constituted, but struggles to make meaningful observations when it comes to the people...
Soft materials play an integral part in many aspects of modern life including autonomy, sustainability, and human health, and their accurate modeling is critical to understand their unique properties and functions. However, the criteria for model selection remain elusive and...
Ghostbuster is a research program to stop advanced “transient execution attacks”, which by themselves already rank among the most advanced attacks ever—by finding vulnerable code fragments, analyzing them for exploitability, and injecting mitigations where needed. The...
Export of organic matter produced in the sunlit surface waters into the ocean’s interior removes about one third of the anthropogenically produced carbon dioxide. The amount of organic matter sinking into the deep ocean, however, is not sufficient to support the carbon...
Fundación Épica La Fura dels Baus proposes, in collaboration with a wide scientific ecosystem, the European Performing Science Program (EPSP) that include the two editions of European Performing Science Night (EPSN) for 2024 and 2025 as well as the Next Generation Performing...
The Instituto de Medicina Molecular João Lobo Antunes (iMM) is a leading European institute in basic biomedical research, now establishing a pioneering Centre of Excellence in human-centred clinical and translational research in Portugal. Research at iMM increasingly requires...
More than 500 million people on three continents are united by the world's largest sea, the Mediterranean. Our strategic geographic location and shared history gives us a common character as well as common challenges. The objective of Mediterranean Researchers' Night ...
Advancing capabilities and elevating the profile of the University of Cyprus (UCY) through the establishment of an Additive Manufacturing and Advanced Materials Competence Centre in Cyprus (AM2C3), will increase the potential for excellence-in-research and promote the growth...
Thanks to the advances in information technology, modern industrial systems are becoming increasingly intelligent and autonomous;thus their requirements for, e.g., correctness, availability, traceability and reliability, are also increasing. Monitoring, analysis anddiagnosis...
The HYway project will be the most comprehensive study on environmental effects of large-scale hydrogen usage to date. HYway is led by a team of experienced scientists who have already conducted extensive research on the climate effects of hydrogen. To fully understand the...
Human beings constantly go in and out interpersonal interactions in their daily lives; these interactions are assumed to have critical effects on mental health. But how such interactions affect mental health is poorly understood. SynSig suggests that interpersonal synchrony is...
SUM4Re proposes a comprehensive approach to creating materials banks from the built environment by combining urban mining and technologies for automated on-site data acquisition and building materials identification and asset components. The project aims to achieve nine...
Malaria and Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) are prevalent parasitic diseases presenting substantial healthcare challenges in tropical and subtropical endemic regions. They share similar geographical distributions, increasing susceptibility during co-infections. Utilizing my...
"Built upon the legacy of the original Blue-connect project, Blue-connect 2.0 is an ambitious initiative designed to deepen the relationship between the Mediterranean community and its coastal environment. The primary goal is to seamlessly integrate scientific research, public...
With this project we want to bring the figure of the researcher and his work closer to the entire society. For this reason, we organize events in diferent areas of the country, we carry out actions in educational centers and we will organize activities in rural areas...
Fighting weeds is one of the oldest problems of agriculture. The current solutions include mass use of herbicides, mechanical tilling or manual weeding. Herbicides are poisons which kill not only weeds, pollute the soil, water and bring lasting damage to all living organisms...
The main objective of MEBATFOL project is the engagement and contribution of MeBattery’s team to implement the activities that are part of the EIC Pathfinder portfolio “Mid to long term and system integrated energy storage (MLDES)” work package to reinforce collaboration...
"BLAZETEC aims to pioneer ultra-high-temperature thermal batteries, operating from 1200 to 1600 °C, offering groundbreaking and efficient solutions for long-duration energy storage and conversion. It focuses the efforts on two pivotal pilot demonstrations: an electric thermal...
STE(A)M for Home economics And Research ExchangE (SHAREE) aims to develop a European-scale research and innovation based hub at Tallinn University - Science Kitchen, with a sustainable management and research performance, strong networking and finance generation capacity to...
ASCLEPIUS’s overall aim is to boost the scientific excellence and innovation capacity of Giorgi Eliava Institute of Bacteriophagy, Microbiology and Virology (Eliava) and its high-quality Twinning partners - l’Institut national de recherche pour l’agriculture...
Emerging technologies such as Proton Exchange Fuel Cells (PEMFCs) and Redox Flow Batteries (RFB) are expected to contribute to society’s transition towards renewable energy. However, these technologies use toxic, PFSA-based membranes which have caused serious ill effects on...
QUEST's primary goal is to amplify the scientific prowess and innovative capabilities of Eötvös Loránd Tudományegyetem (ELTE) alongside its esteemed Twinning partners: Linköpings universitet, Loughborough University, Aalto University, JustInMind SL, and Intelligentsia...
"In Europe's digitally transforming business landscape, innovative SMEs and start-ups in widening countries are pioneering change in their region yet face challenges like limited resources and complex R&I ecosystems for internationalization. Concurrently, EU R&I networks seek...
Nature uses a complex chemical language between cells and their environment to sustain life. T-cells, critical players of the immune system, constantly communicate and respond to environmental signals through cell-fate decisions to protect against pathogens. Their function in...
THERMOCOOL addresses critical global challenges - energy transition and digitalization. With 20% of global energy used for cooling, and 1.6 billion AC units in use, energy-efficient alternatives are vital. Thermoelectric coolers (TE) offer a solution, saving 1795 kWh/y and...
The CFM4Industry project, promoted by Moi Composites, represents an industrialization and technology commercial launch project aiming to revolutionize advanced composite manufacturing through Continuous Fiber Manufacturing (CFM) technology. This patented, novel digital...
Envisioned battery demand of 735 GWh for electric mobility by 2025, escalating to a projected 125 million Electric Vehicles (EVs) by 2033, fuels our impetus for innovation. However, these prospects are marred by real safety concerns, evidenced by 2 harrowing ship fires...
Large molecules, i.e. molecules with more than 10 or even 20 atoms, have a huge potential to provide new data for the elaboration of new physics, from probing dark matter models, variations of fundamental constants or testing the Standard Model beyond what can be achieved by...
The ENERGENIUS project provides an innovative pathway dedicated to cultivating an inclusive, community-driven energy transition, underpinned by the ethos of 'Leave No One Behind.' At its heart is the ENERGENIUS Suite, a comprehensive, one-stop-shop digital platform providing a...
Mitigating the current rise in chronic diseases and effectively addressing the enduring challenges posed by infectious diseases are pressing concerns in 21st-century healthcare. These challenges demand innovative research approaches, and microphysiological systems (MPS) have...
Until now, the approach to road safety has primarily focused on analyzing the most common types of injuries based on road user types and crash characteristics. There is a growing consensus to shift the paradigm towards a user-centric approach that considers the specific needs...
T cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) is a rare disease that affects around 10-13 individuals in one million and affects pediatric and adult patients. High-dose chemotherapy is an adequate therapeutic treatment for most patients, however 10-20% of patients relapse and...
The AHEAD (AI-informed Holistic Electric Vehicles Integration Approaches for Distribution Grids) project will create a simulation environment capable of predicting the most convenient location to place the electric vehicle (EV) charging stations and optimise both the usage of...
Our large, non-circular use of fossil fuels is the main cause of rapid climate change and resource depletion. CO2 capture followed by conversion back into fuels would be attractive. The feasibility of this route depends critically on new catalysts that allow quick CO2...
Motivated by the recent discovery of a giant strain-induced blue-shift of Terahertz antiferromagnetic spin waves (magnons) in the spin-orbit Mott insulators Sr2IrO4 and Ca2RuO4 by the PI and his group, the SpecTera project will explore whether strain modulation can be...
When prototyping or producing a machine or its parts, several methods of manufacturing are used, such as machining, additive manufacturing, laser cutting or welding. These manufactured parts are investigated for their manufacturing tolerances upon production via quality...
Immunotherapy can prolong lives of cancer patient subgroups, but fails in solid tumors with dense fibrotic stroma, such as pancreatic cancer. Fibrotic stroma prevents the recruitment and activation of immune effector cells, and, thereby dampens the efficacy of immunotherapy...
The first 150 million years of the Earth’s history have led to the formation of the metallic core and the solidification of the magma ocean. During this period the chemical composition of the core and the bulk silicate Earth (BSE) were defined, setting the initial conditions...
The project will establish frontline semiconductor terahertz electronics for far-infrared space instruments by exploring and combining InP-based semiconductors with thin silicon membrane technology. The goal is to obtain high receiver sensitivity and stability for much less...
The 'Trilateral Magnetic Exchange' initiative - TRILMAX aims to make a transformative impact on research excellence at Eötvös Loránd Tudományegyetem—ELTE. Through strategic collaborations with leading centres of excellence in Germany (Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für...
Fiber photometry allows the activity of molecularly defined neuronal populations to be measured in freely behaving animals. The method is based on an implanted optical fiber through which fluorescent genetically encoded indicators of cellular activity, metabolites or signaling...
The ORION vision is to strengthen the European leadership in science and technology and accelerate the twin energy transition of theenergy value chain stakeholders with a quintuple-helix model by delivering a modular toolbox of digital breakthrough components,by validating...
Ultrafast electron microscopy relies on the spatial, spectral, and temporal manipulation of free electrons with nm/meV/fs precision to map the structural dynamics as well as the vibrational and electronic ground and excited states of nanomaterials. With QUEFES I will introduce...
During healthy aging but also in osteoporosis, a disease that affects more than 22% of European women beyond the age of 50, loss of mineralized bone is caused by a disbalance between bone formation and resorption. While blood vessels are abundant in the skeletal system and...
This project offers increased understanding of arctic Indigenous cosmologies as a form of environmental knowledge and traces their significance for communities in times of environmental crisis. With a special focus on traditional Sámi cosmologies and Sámi contemporary art...
Pneumonia is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality especially among children in sub-Saharan Africa. Nigeria and Ethiopia are among the 5 countries that account for half of the under-five pneumonia deaths. Majority of the deaths from pneumonia are however preventable with...
Pain results from activation of the nociceptive sensory system, which is built upon the primary afferent nociceptor a type of sensory neuron specialized to detect, code and relay information about potentially or actually damaging stimuli. Humans lacking properly functioning...
"Single cell molecular profiling allows to map cellular development at an unprecedented level of detail. Optimal transport (OT) enables the analysis of this dynamical process as a trajectory inference problem, using OT flows. These flows treat cells as particles evolving on an...
Power to heat (P2H) is expected to be the first type of electrification that will drastically transform the chemical industry. This holds in particular for producing its major building blocks: the 300 Mt/yr light olefins via steam cracking at more than 800°C. e-CRACKER will...
In the near future a number of space missions will aim to study the icy Galilean satellites of Jupiter to detect subglacial liquid water, using radar sounders. To properly interpret the radar data, it is necessary to understand the dielectric properties of the icy shells of...
Kidney diseases are a worldwide rising major health problem associated with an excess risk for cardiovascular disease and reduced life expectancy. While general risk factors for kidney diseases such as diabetes and hypertension are being addressed through numerous research...
Currently, we witness the “geopoliticization” of trade, namely the linking of national security concerns to trade policy. While this geopoliticization is related to the U.S.-China trade war and the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it has become a broad phenomenon affecting...
The transition of the waterborne fleet to a zero-emission mode of transport critically depends on the development of power conversion systems that effectively can use sustainable alternative fuels. Going beyond the state-of-the-art in gas turbine technology, MARPOWER will...
EU’s industry is pushed by EC‘s green deal to convert into a net-zero industry, accelerate the transEU’s industry is pushed by EC‘s green deal to convert into a net-zero industry, accelerate the transition to climate neutrality and drive its resilience. As an important...
META-MUSEUM aims to create empathic encounters where citizens can understand the CH transformative nature through active participation, emotional involvement and co-creation; to develop the “TransforMeans theory” and related new professional skills, based on Neuroscience...
Anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and deteriorating air quality are driving climate change and severely impacting human and ecosystem health, respectively. To combat these issues, new and more stringent green regulations are being implemented globally, which...
GI SMART (Geographical Indications’ contribution to smart territorial development and sustainability. Insights for GIs producers, policy makers, consumers and local communities) is a four-year lump-sum project to undertake research and demonstration activities (innovative...
EU-TRAINS aims to reinforce the supply chain on sensors for biomechanics and cardiovascular system real-time monitoring targeting applications in the fields of fitness and healthcare. It leverages from the strength of EU digital microsystem and design to support a 100%...
Crop wild relatives (CWR) are wild plant species genetically related to cultivated crops. Their untapped diversity can enhance resilience to biotic and abiotic stress and the nutritional quality of modern crops. Wheat, sugar beet, and oilseed rape were selected by Pro-wild...
Despite emotions being a driver of political choices, building democratically meaningful emotional narratives in politics remains an uncharted territory. Hence the main venture of ENCODE is to decode the meanings of emotions and encode them to policy-making strategies aiming...
Based on intense research efforts in the fields of technology development and materials science, a new generation of medical devices has flourished. But this medical technology still relies on conventional energy sources (bulky batteries). These batteries typically have...
DISCOVER aims to develop an autonomous, synchronous, continuous and intelligent identification and data analysis system for materials and products in existing end-of-life built works. The proposed approach will provide key stakeholders, including academia research performers...
Modifying the vocal repertoire using an external auditory model is a prerequisite for speech production. But how full-fledged vocal learning evolved in humans, uniquely among primates, is still unclear. Integrating recent evidence from ethology and genetics, I hypothesize that...
Agrochemicals (i.e., fertilizers and pesticides) are responsible for doubling crop yields over the last century. However, they cause multiple negative impacts on environmental and human health. To lessen their effects, the EU aims at reducing by 50% fertilizer losses and use...
Shortages in amino acids are weapons in the warfare between tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. Tumor cells enhance or inhibit the production of key amino acid metabolites to stimulate oncogenesis and suppress anti-tumor activity. A key player in this battle is...
ChrIs-cross will produce the first comprehensive study of Christianities in Jerusalem and the Middle East from the 12th to the 16th c., in the face of shifting rulership structures, first Frankish, then Islamic, and religious affiliations. It will envisage them from a...
Brain-machine interfaces are classically based on multi-electrode arrays. Optogenetics has revolutionized this ability to control neuronal activity through ectopic opsin expression but its application to large brains remains limited because of tissue light absorption and...
